hotline League is brought to you by open
by HP if you are tuning in for the first
time this episode you are watching hot
line League
it's a call-in show hosted by mark and I
this this week's guest is Rancho Park
it's up to anything else yes we have
caught on the line con who previously
has been on the show and as a twitch sub
thanks first up for your support where
you calling from again con oh good old
Idaho nice that RISM can remember me as
somehow they only call that cousin of
the show but just good old Idaho no very
good yeah no I mean a lot of people
bring up Idaho we seem to have a lot of
colors for my I've already cracked ume
potato jam so what do you want to talk
about Connor oh when I appreciate
chopper for being so open with the
community as somebody who's ahead of na
LCS it's nice to see but my question is
it's kind of piggybacking off at the
last guy in a way and what type of plans
is riot you know you guys have to
improve na LCS viewership because you
know I've been kind of watching the
numbers all split you know and there
hasn't really been very much of a bump
especially compared to kind of the glory
days for the NA LCS in like season 3
season 4 season 5 when it was so what do
you guys have planned to maybe help
bring it back because it just feels like
we're still stuck in a lull I mean I was
watching last week and games four and
five or under a hundred thousand viewers
on the Riot Games Channel and that's for
me as somebody who's been watching from
season two that's a huge kind of
disappointment yeah so I think there's a
couple things one I I don't think the
viewership is as as dire as you're
portraying I would remind people who
only watch on Twitch that we are also
multiple other coaches on Twitch else on
YouTube sorry like they cut out for a
second languages there so you know are
we where I aspire for the lead to be a
viewership no certainly not
I was here in 2013
I helped work on some of those analytic
reports that pulled those numbers I know
how big our potential audience can be
and I am the reason that I'm here is to
build us back to that state like there's
nothing fundamentally different about
our league or our fan base or our teams
that prevents us from getting back to
that so I like you want us to get back
to that that that sort of glory ages as
you kind of put it and I think to do
that we have a lot of things in plan
some of them are going to involve
working much more closely with the teams
as franchise partners I think we're
going to be able to coordinate much more
closely with them around the kind of
content that we do and the sort of
supplemental experiences that were able
to design that are going to provide more
rewarding and engaging experiences for
fans I think we also have a lot that we
can do on the riot side to build out the
digital and sort of overall fan
experience of being part of the NA LCS
you know I grew up as a major sports fan
I grew up a Duke basketball fan and a
general Philadelphia sports fan and I
can remember as a kid being part of
things like the Junior Duke Blue Devils
Club and what it meant to get the
t-shirt and feel you were part of the
club and you know the pride I took and
being able to represent my team and the
fact that that meant that I didn't miss
a single game and you know was able to
carry that on for years that behavior
and so we're looking to create long-term
engagement cycles with our fans and we
want to make sure that our fans are able
to integrate with their teams and
integrate with their favorite players
and integrate with those brands in a in
a compelling fashion and that's a lot of
the stuff that were looking on right now
you know I think it was a massive effort
to launch the season given the number of
changes that I talked about above I mean
I don't want to underscore how
challenging implementing a franchise
system was for Riot as a company and
also this team on na LCS and also the
who had to undergo this entire process
and so I think now that we are into the
season this is really just the beginning
of what we aspire to do to rebuild the
NA LCS into truly one of the best eSport
leagues in the world so you know I don't
have a
great answer for you now other than to
say that like let's book a hotline
league in like six months and if I
haven't answered your question better by
then like then we'll start talking about
more direct actions that's like I'm
incredibly confident this team we have
one of the best staffs in the world and
like this is a team and and our proteins
and owners are ready to partner with us
to build this thing into something that
all of our fans can be truly proud of so
I'm super excited about that I know our
team is super jazzed about it and I
think over the coming weeks and months
and and to be honest two years you'll
see that effort reflected alright yeah I
just you know a few things
cuz ideas maybe I asked you if you guys
are thinking about is like sure I mean
obviously if you wanted to inflate
numbers for like a weekend you could
have like a Tyler one I'm saying I agree
with that or saying it's a good idea but
like even like a special guests that
come in or one thing I know a lot of
people are disappointed with is that
there was no kind of hype or like
advertisement built around the UH
started the spring split with the new
franchise system compared to like you
know the overwatch League you know
anything like that potentially that you
might know of at the moment or yeah I
mean I think for the start of the season
I would hazard it was probably the most
challenging start of season that we'll
have going forward because we were
transitioning so many of the teams into
the league I mean getting a lot of this
guys up off the ground and you know
working with several of those teams who
didn't have necessarily brands and logos
and colors and all the elements that we
need to kind of promote teams for the
start of the season so I think now that
a lot of those teams are in the league
and are going to be for years to come
that's an opportunity and I suggest
waving to the twitch chat there I think
that's the opportunity that we have to
really submit the start of season to the
point that you raise around like Tyler
won and doing other sort of like single
expected calls to try and drive traffic
as much as those might be fun the
long-term impact of those is relatively
me because we're not going to make you
know a massive amount of money for the
lrp and share that with owners and share
that with players based on the single
week's worth of your ship and we're not
going to sign a massive sponsor just
because one week we happen to pull in
fantastic
we're trying to make decisions and we're
trying to build programs and the
engagement cycles that can last for
years and can engage someone who can
come back week over so as much as we
might be able to utilize sort of you
know spectacle opportunities like that
that's actually I am I'm far less
interested in doing things like that and
far more interested in having the team
think about what is it that makes a fan
want to tune in for five hours on
Saturday and five hours on Sunday what
makes them want to watch every game on
this slate well makes them want to watch
eyes on and what makes them want to
watch this or that and what makes them
want to watch hot line League like makes
them want to engage with the wider
community and the wider ecosystem
because it's me that's the sign of a
successful league it's not whether or
not we can pull in 300 thousands and on
a single Saturday it's you know for me
it's whether or not we're still here in
ten years and so that's that's kind of
the direction that I'm hoping to build
the lead towards well I'm happy to hear
that too and then just the final kind of
point is have you guys ever thought
about taking it away from just the
Sunday and Saturday type of structure
because one of my complaints as a viewer
is I feel like you know you made the
change the best of one so you can watch
all the games but it can feel
overbearing to have all the games on two
days unlike other leaks that have games
over five days it is something we've
considered we actually started the NA
LCS back in 13 with shows on Thursdays
at Friday's and we started them with
varying times between 3:00 and 5:00 p.m.
PST when the prom that we ran into is by
starting that late we had very very
significant problems with attracting
both an East Coast audience as well as a
European audience and one thing that we
know about our audience in Europe is
that they like to consume the North
American LCS
just like our NA audience likes consume
the EU LCS so we didn't want to take
steps that we're going to isolate either
of those audiences and so being able to
utilize Saturdays and Sundays to go a
little bit later knowing the kind of
viewing habits of the respective
audiences that we were going with but
not necessarily having to go as late as
we would on a weekday while that might
work out for our West Coast viewers and
we know there's
a ton of you know incredibly passionate
West Coasters out there we want to make
sure that we're taking into account the
entire ecosystem so if there's a way
that we can do something whether through
rebroadcast or kind of selective
broadcast timing over the week that's
certainly something that we'll explore
but I think for now we feel pretty good
about the the timing of our our games
being optimized for bringing in the
largest audience possible all right well
that's everything ahead is like I said I
really want to thank you chopper you're
you're always open on reddit you're open
on Twitter you're open to Travis hey man
my pleasure it was a great series of
quiet to talk about thanks come and
that's a stuff so you just know the
quality kind of questions you get from
Travis's tubs yeah great great people
all around